                    Cyfer - the cryptographic library
                             version 0.6.1

Introduction
------------

	Cyfer is a portable low-level cryptographic library providing several
implementations of message digest, block and stream cipher and public-key
algorithms. The library is extremely modular, providing easy way to add or
modify algorithm implementations, or even separating the particular algorithm
from the library physically (suitable for embedded environments).

	Cyfer is a low-level library. It deals only with various
algorithms, and completely avoids the problems of data representation.
This is most evident in public-key sections - cyfer completely avoids
the existing Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) standards. If you need
this functionality, use the excellent and free OpenSSL, or some
similar library.

	The library design concept emphasises on simplicity and elegance (of
both the algorithm implementations (if possible:) and the support library
code), not maximizing performance or minimizing memory footprint. The algorithm
implementations are straightforward, so they can be used for educational
purposes.

	Cyfer is portable to any platform with sane C development environment,
the only requirement being the availability of the GNU MP (Multiple Precision
arithmetic) library. As the GMP is used only for public-key cryptography, hash
or symmetric cipher components should work everywhere.

	The library is known to compile and run in Linux, FreeBSD, Solaris and
Windows operating systems, on x86 (32-bit, little-endian) and sparc9 (64-bit,
big-endian) architectures.


Installation
------------

For detailed installation instructions see the file INSTALL.


Documentation
-------------

	For an overview and a short guide on how to use the library, consult
the UserGuide.txt file. This file doesn't contain code samples, so you'll
want to look at doc/examples/ directory (which are fairly documented, don't
worry :).

	Also, a fully annotated complete library reference in HTML format,
(generated using Doxygen) is provided.


Features
--------

Hash algorithms:
	Adler-32, CRC-32, MD2, MD4, MD5, RIPEMD-160, SHA-1, SHA-256, Snefru
	
Block ciphers:
	AES, Blowfish, DEAL, DES, DESX, TripleDES, IDEA, RC2, RC5, RC6,
	ThreeWay
	
Block cipher modes of operation:
	ECB, CBC, CFB, OFB

Stream ciphers:
	RC4 (ArcFour)
	
Public-key cryptography:
	ElGamal, LUC, RSA

Key-exchange algorithms:
	Diffie-Hellman


Contributing
------------

If you've spare time and would like to contribute, here are the areas that
need more work:

        - new algorithms - If you need an algorithm which isn't supported,
          just implement it and send the patch (but see below).

        - test suites - There should be more tests for each supported
          algorithm. It's easy to write the test: Compute or find the
          known correct input/output pair for the algorithm, and include
          it in the test program.

        - documentation - There's no programmer's manual, and wrapper docs
          are nonexistent. If you like to write documentation (does anyone?),
          please do :)

        - ports - I have no access to "exotic" (for me, anyways) platforms
          and, although I've tried to make everything as portable as possible,
          there's bound to be (hopefuly minor) problems when using Cyfer on
          different platforms. If you managed to compile and run it on some
          system not listed here, I'd be grateful to know of that (and of any
          problems you encountered).

        - bugfixes, bugreports - If you can fix it, great! If not, I'd
          appreciate if you mail me with bug description, the environment
          you're using, and sample code to reproduce the error.
          
        - Any suggestions, remarks and rants you might have are always
          appreciated :)
     

	
Author and Copyright
--------------------

	Author of Cyfer is Senko Rasic <senko@senko.net>. Suggestions, bug
reports and any other feedback (to the above mail address) is welcomed
and appriciated.

	Cyfer is free software. You may use and/or distribute it under the
terms of the BSD software license, see the file LICENSE for details.

WARNING: Cyfer is provided with best intent to be useful and secure, but
with no warranty; it is not heavily tested and may contain numerous severe
bugs, flaws and holes - if security is your #1 goal, the wisest choice is
to use tested, proven and certified cryptography implementation.

